# Other Types to Know About

There are some additional types you’ll want to recognize that appear often when working with function types. Like all types, you can use them everywhere, but these are especially relevant in the context of functions.

### void

void represents the return value of functions which don’t return a value. It’s the inferred type any time a function doesn’t have any return statements, or doesn’t return any explicit value from those return statements:

```ts
// The inferred return type is void
function noop() {
  return;
}
```
>void is not the same as undefined.

### object

The special type `object` refers to any value that isn’t a primitive (`string`, `number`, `bigint`, `boolean`, `symbol`, `null`, or `undefined`). This is different from the empty object type `{ }`, and also different from the global type `Object`.

>`object` is not `Object`. Always use `object`!

### unknown

The `unknown` type represents any value. This is similar to the `any` type, but is safer because it’s not legal to do anything with an `unknown` value :

```ts
function f1(a: any) {
  a.b(); // OK
}
function f2(a: unknown) {
  a.b();
//Object is of type 'unknown'.
}

function safeParse(s: string): unknown {
  return JSON.parse(s);
}
```

### never

The `never` type represents values which are never observed. In a return type, this means that the function throws an exception or terminates execution of the program.

```ts
function fail(msg: string): never {
  throw new Error(msg);
}
```

### Function

The global type `Function` describes properties like `bind`, `call`, `apply`, and others present on all function values in JavaScript. It also has the special property that values of type `Function` can always be called; these calls return `any`:

```ts
function doSomething(f: Function) {
  return f(1, 2, 3);
}
```

